https://www.theodinproject.com/courses/ruby-on-rails/lessons/a-railsy-web-refresher

REST
REST is a term that you’ll see coming up again and again because it’s a very powerful idea. It basically says that there are really only 7 different types of things that you usually want to do to an individual resource via the web and you can do them by mixing and matching the HTTP verbs we just covered. A “resource” usually means a “thing” in your database or a data model. In this case, we’ll assume that resource is a blog Post model that you’ve set up:

GET all the posts (aka “index” the posts)
GET just one specific post (aka “show” that post)
GET the page that lets you create a new post (aka view the “new” post page)
POST the data you just filled out for a new post back to the server so it can create that post (aka “create” the post)
GET the page that lets you edit an existing post (aka view the “edit” post page)
PUT (or PATCH) the data you just filled out for editing the post back to the server so it can actually perform the update (aka “update” the post)
DELETE one specific post by sending a delete request to the server (aka “delete” the post)
The highlighted words correspond to standard Rails controller actions!

Why is this important? Because it gives you a very organized way of thinking about your resources. This is the way to model your requests and should be the ONLY way that those requests are done (e.g. you shouldn’t be actually submitting the data for editing a post using a GET request… that should be a POST) If you have a hard time thinking of how those seven scenarios (or at least a subset of them) would apply to a resource you want to create in your database, you may need to rethink how your data is being set up.

It’s also important because Rails is structured to follow these conventions in a very straightforward way. As long as you’re performing those actions, life is very easy for you and the request that you get from the browser can be easily routed through Rails’ guts.

It may seem simplistic to you up front to think of things this way, but once you’ve got a bit of complexity in your data model, you’ll find that falling back on RESTful thinking can help untangle things for you.
